---
layout: post
date: 2017-07-11
title: "First contact: The only thing that matters is this moment."
description: |
  Everyone starts over somewhere. Watch now as I start yet again.
keywords:
  - why write
  - mindfulness
categories: personal
---

As this is my first post, it seems appropriate for me to talk about what has inspired me to begin writing.

As long as I can remember, **I've always needed things to look forward to.** My earliest memory is of anticipation. Whether it was Christmas, visits to the local indoor pool, or a trip to the carnival, my life has always consisted of these periods of hope and anticipation punctuated by these moments of reward.

Maybe that's not unusual. For me, it's a trait that has persisted into adulthood. I joined a metal band when I was 17, and over the next few years we played about 100 gigs. I wasn't much of a showman, but I could play pretty well and more importantly, I was over-the-moon happy to be in that band. 

That band fizzled out, as many do, and like many people in that situation I did what I thought was the responsible thing by attending college, finding a job and setting.

Not settling. _*Setting.*_ Like Jello. I slowly molded into this person I didn't recognize and couldn't respect. 

It was only when it occurred to me that I'd become a non-entity that I changed.

My wife and coworkers will probably attest to the fact that I have trouble unwinding and "having fun" the way other people do at work. 

The honest truth is that I have to produce. I can't just relax unless I've created something. It may not be relatable, and as such it's kind of isolating, but it's me. I need my time to matter: "Luke was here." The last thing I need is a vacation. 

It's not that I don't like vacations, but rather I am loathe to be unproductive. To quote my brother Ben, the word vacation "...connotes bourgeoisie comfort and laying around like a walrus." 

I've done enough laying around, and there are plenty of conflict-avoidant corporate lifers out there who are much better at it than I'll ever be. At the ripe young age of 41 years, I've concluded that my desire to always be busy is driven more by need to create than anything else.

I've lately been consuming podcast content like a sponge. There's no time left over in my day. I have a full-tie job which pays my bills, and when I come home I try to be a good patient father and husband, and I also manage our rental real estate on the side. It may not sound like a lot, but I have absolutely no energy left over. 

If I'm lucky, I wake early enough to exercise before my son wakes up. 

Time is currency and you have to make it count. 

As much as I appreciate the ideas they've shared with the world, I'm not content to sit and consume what the rest of the world has created. Those who can, must do. We are obligated by the universe to redeem the time we are given, and for me that means adding something to the world. 

Perhaps it was the fact that I'd spent 4 years studying biology, but after weeks of this I decided I'd had enough, and rationalized it as my subconscious telling me that **I had unfinished business.** I decided that happiness was a choice, and that it was no longer important for me to understand "what it all meant." There is no past, or present. There is only now, and now matters.

Just as the universe rewards us for doing what we love, we should also suffer for our failure to start, our fear of following through, and our refusal to deliver what we are each individually wired to create.

Between this blog and other endeavors, I intend to pay forward inspiration I've found over the last four decades. What I now look forward to is using creation - whether it's original music, writing, art, or some other wonderful creative surprise - as a vessel to connect. I will cast the net in every direction, and hopefully engage others making a similar journey.

Talk to you soon,

<!--more-->

There is no real meaning here, just a second post, to help
us see how the blog behaves with multiple posts. Pay attention
how files are named.

More information about writing Jekyll posts is
[here](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/).

By the way, the first post is [here]({% post_url 2016-09-12-first-post %}).
