---
layout: post
date: 2017-07-18
title: "First contact"
description: |
  Everyone starts over somewhere.
keywords:
  - writing
  - mindfulness
categories: personal
---

A first post seems like an appropriate place to talk about what has inspired me to write.

Every strength is the backside of some weakness, and vice-versa. For example, **I have to be working.** The harder the project, the more confounding and gruesome the problem or [sisyphean](https://www.vocabulary.com/dictionary/Sisyphean) the task, the better. 

I have no problem getting motivated to tackle tough projects, but that also makes it hard not to measure each day on the basis of what I've made of it. I find it difficult to "relax," at least as most people I know seem to define it.

Vacations, for example, make almost no sense to me. To quote my brother, the word "...connotes bourgeoisie comfort and laying around like a walrus." The notion of setting aside time specifically _*not*_ to get anything done just makes me anxious.

It's also hard for me to relate to others around me. As much as I think I care about people and their problems, I don't always understand them, particularly how their ability to not take the work personally. 

How can anyone not treat their work as their own personal brand? Can anyone feel truly alive without some constant pressure to deliver?

Or do people just betray their convictions on a daily basis in order to be considered a team player, and put on a happy face?

_How does anyone manage to separate what they do from who they are?_

I've spent the last five years wrestling with that question, and recently I've cried "uncle" because I just don't give a shit anymore.



<!--more-->

I love working. For me, **working defines who I am.** What form that work takes is not as important; I could be moving dirt and rock in the hot sun or writing an original song and lyrics in air-conditioned comfort. To me, they're both equally difficult and equally rewarding because I think they scratch the same itch. 

At the ripe young age of 41 years, I've decided that **my need to be busy is my subconscious playing a trick to compel me to create, build and produce.** Just as the universe seems to reward us for doing what we love, I think our failure to act and follow through on creative impulses generates a debt that eventually comes due.

As long as I can remember, **I've always needed things to look forward to.** My earliest memory is the sense of anticipation, being keenly aware of upcoming life milestones. Field trips, summer break...my enduring childhood memories are of long periods of anticipation punctuated by these payoffs. 

I've spent the past few years studying people and consuming what the rest of the world has created. Now, I look forward now to creating more than I consume. This blog and anything else I manage to put out there are part of a net I'm casting in every direction to try and engage others who might be making the same journey. 

See you soon,
